A Compendium of Esoteric & Foundational Crates for the Rust Ecosystem

Forging New Wands for the Rust Ecosystem

The Rust programming language has achieved remarkable maturity in a
relatively short period. Its ecosystem, centered around crates.io,
boasts powerful, production-ready libraries for domains such as web
development, embedded systems, and databases.¹ A survey of popular
resources like the

awesome-rust lists reveals a vibrant community building complex,
high-performance applications. However, a deeper analysis of the
available crates, particularly in categories like "Algorithms" and
"Computation," reveals a subtle maturity gap when compared to ecosystems
like Python or Go.³ While foundational libraries certainly exist, the
rich layer of fine-grained, specialized, and highly ergonomic
computational utilities is less developed.

This gap does not represent a deficiency but rather a significant
opportunity. The comprehensive utility libraries found in other
languages—such as Python's itertools and collections modules, Go's
slices package, or JavaScript's lodash library—are the product of
decades of developers identifying and solving recurring, small-scale
algorithmic problems.⁵ These battle-tested collections of functions are
not mere conveniences; they form an "iterator algebra" and a vocabulary
of data manipulation that accelerates development, reduces bugs, and
promotes efficient, idiomatic code.⁹ Rust's relative youth means that
many of these "solved problems" from other ecosystems represent
greenfield opportunities for high-impact contributions. The user's query
is therefore exceptionally well-timed, targeting the creation of small,
focused crates that can fill these niches and provide immense
quality-of-life improvements for developers engaged in data-intensive or
algorithmic work.

Rust is a uniquely suitable proving ground for these new libraries for
several key reasons. Firstly, its commitment to zero-cost abstractions
and fine-grained memory control makes it the ideal language for
implementing CPU-level bit-twiddling algorithms and memory-frugal
compact data structures, tasks that would be inefficient or impossible
in higher-level managed languages.¹⁰ Secondly, the language's powerful
ownership model and type system provide a fortress of safety, preventing
entire classes of common C++ bugs like iterator invalidation or data
races, which are particularly pernicious in complex geometric or
concurrent algorithms. This allows for the creation of "next-generation"
implementations of classic algorithms that are not only fast but also
fundamentally more robust and secure. Finally, Rust's modern tooling,
particularly its seamless interoperability with WebAssembly (WASM) and
its straightforward Foreign Function Interface (FFI), means that a
high-performance mathematical library written in Rust can have an
outsized impact, serving not only the native Rust community but also the
web and as a performant backend for languages like Python and Ruby.

This report presents a curated list of over 100 such opportunities. Each
idea is a proposal for a small, focused crate of under 300 lines of
code, designed to be both mathematically rigorous and highly useful. The
ideas are drawn from a deep survey of academic literature in computer
science and mathematics, as well as a comparative analysis of the most
successful utility libraries in other major programming languages.

Methodology and Scoring

To provide a pragmatic filter for prioritizing effort, each idea in the
following compendium is evaluated against two key metrics, each on a
1-to-5 scale:

-   Probability of Product-Market Fit (PMF): This score estimates the
      likelihood that the proposed crate will be adopted and used by the
      community.

    -   5: A direct port of a universally used, fundamental function
          from a major language's standard library (e.g., Python's
          itertools.combinations). Its utility is already proven beyond
          doubt.

    -   4: A widely-used utility from a popular third-party library
          (e.g., lodash, more-itertools) or a very common algorithm
          (e.g., a standard statistical test).

    -   3: A more niche but powerful algorithm from academic literature
          that solves a well-known, recurring problem (e.g., a specific
          type of sequence alignment or a compact data structure).

    -   2: A useful but highly specialized algorithm that may only
          appeal to a small sub-community (e.g., specific
          cache-oblivious structures or esoteric bit hacks).

    -   1: A speculative or highly theoretical idea that is academically
          interesting but has an unproven practical application.

-   Ease of Success-Testing: This score assesses the difficulty of
      verifying the correctness of an implementation.

    -   5: The function is pure, with simple, discrete inputs and
          outputs that are easily verifiable against a known
          specification (e.g., sorting, bit manipulation).

    -   4: The logic is straightforward, but may involve iterators or
          state, requiring more comprehensive test cases.

    -   3: The algorithm is complex or has numerous edge cases that must
          be tested. May require validation against established
          reference implementations in other languages (e.g.,
          statistical tests).

    -   2: The algorithm involves difficult edge cases related to
          floating-point arithmetic or complex geometric configurations,
          making robust testing challenging.

    -   1: The correctness is difficult to prove automatically and may
          rely on visual inspection, statistical validation of
          distributions, or formal methods.

The Grand Compendium of Esoteric & Foundational Crates

The following table is a curated roadmap of high-impact open-source
opportunities. It is organized thematically to guide exploration through
different domains of computer science and mathematics, from
battle-tested utilities proven in other ecosystems to cutting-edge
algorithms from academic research. Each entry represents a potential
crate that is small in scope but large in potential value to the Rust
community.

The Itertools & Collections Grimoire (Inspired by Python, Go, & JS)

This section details small, powerful iterator adaptors, combinatoric
functions, and specialized collection utilities ported from mature
ecosystems. These ideas have an inherently high probability of
product-market fit, as their utility has been demonstrated over years of
widespread use in languages like Python, Go, and JavaScript. Rust's
lazy, composable Iterator trait provides a perfect foundation for this
"iterator algebra," making these additions feel native to the language's
design philosophy.⁹

  Crate Name (Harry Potter Themed)   Description & Reasoning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Probability of PMF (1-5)   Ease of Success-Testing (1-5)   Relevant Artifacts (Links)
  ---------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------------
  The Goblet of Fire                 An iterator adaptor tee(n) that splits a single iterator into n independent iterators. Each new iterator yields the same items as the original. Essential for algorithms that need to perform multiple independent passes over a sequence without collecting it into a Vec. This is a direct port of Python's highly useful itertools.tee.   5                          3                               ⁹
  The Time-Turner                    An iterator adaptor cycle() that endlessly repeats the items of the underlying iterator. This is fundamental for tasks involving repeating patterns, circular buffers, or generating cyclical data streams. A core utility in Python's itertools.                                                                                            5                          5                               ⁵
  The Room of Requirement            A DefaultHashMap and DefaultBTreeMap struct that mimics Python's collections.defaultdict. When a key is accessed that does not exist, a user-provided closure is called to generate a default value, which is then inserted and returned. This drastically simplifies code for grouping and counting tasks.                                  5                          4                               ¹⁴
  Gringotts' Vault                   A Counter struct, essentially a HashMap<T, isize> wrapper, that implements multiset arithmetic. It supports efficient element counting and operations like addition, subtraction, union (`), and intersection (&) between counters. This is a powerful and surprisingly missing data structure from Python's collections` module.            5                          4                               
  The Marauder's Map                 An iterator adaptor chain_from_iterable() that takes an iterator of iterators (e.g., &) and flattens it by one level, yielding the items of the inner iterators sequentially. This is the equivalent of Python's itertools.chain.from_iterable and is more ergonomic than flatten() for certain types.                                       5                          5                               ⁹
  The Sorting Hat                    An iterator adaptor groupby() that groups consecutive elements from a sorted iterator that share the same key, as determined by a key function. Yields (key, group_iterator) pairs. A direct and powerful port of Python's itertools.groupby.                                                                                                4                          3                               ⁹
  The Pensieve                       A peekable iterator extension that allows looking ahead more than one item without consuming the iterator (e.g., peek_nth(n)). The standard library's Peekable only allows looking one item ahead. Inspired by Python's more-itertools spy or peekable concepts.                                                                             4                          4                               ¹⁸
  The Howler                         An iterator adaptor repeat(element, n) that yields a given element n times (or infinitely if n is omitted). A simple but fundamental building block from Python's itertools.                                                                                                                                                                 5                          5                               ¹³
  The Triwizard Tournament           A collection of combinatoric iterators: permutations(r), combinations(r), and combinations_with_replacement(r). These are mathematically pure, highly useful for solving algorithmic problems, and are a cornerstone of Python's itertools library.                                                                                          5                          5                               ¹²
  The Portkey                        An iterator adaptor batched(n) or chunked(n) that yields non-overlapping chunks (slices or Vecs) of size n from the source iterator. The last chunk may be smaller. Essential for batch processing of data. Inspired by Python's itertools.batched and Go's slices.Chunk.                                                                    5                          4                               ⁷
  The Knight Bus                     An iterator adaptor windowed(n) that returns a sliding window of size n over the iterator. Unlike chunked, the windows overlap. For an input and `n=3`, it would yield, then ``. From Python's more-itertools.                                                                                                                               5                          4                               ¹⁸
  The Mirror of Erised               A pairwise() iterator adaptor that yields overlapping pairs of items. For an input ``, it yields (1, 2), (2, 3), (3, 4). A special case of windowed(2) but common enough to warrant its own utility. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                5                          5                               ⁹
  The Invisibility Cloak             An iterator adaptor filter_false(predicate) which is the opposite of filter(). It yields only the items for which the predicate returns false. A direct port from Python's itertools.                                                                                                                                                        4                          5                               ⁹
  The Philosopher's Stone            An iterator adaptor accumulate(func) that produces a running total or other accumulated result. For example, .accumulate(+) would yield 1, 3, 6, 10. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                                                                4                          4                               ¹²
  The Daily Prophet                  A ChainMap struct that groups multiple HashMaps or other mappings into a single, updateable view. Lookups search the maps in order, while writes only affect the first map. Excellent for managing configuration overrides or simulating nested scopes. From Python's collections.                                                           4                          3                               ¹⁴
  The Whomping Willow                A deque (e.g., VecDeque) wrapper that provides a maxlen constructor. When a bounded deque is full, adding an item to one end automatically discards an item from the opposite end. A core feature of Python's collections.deque.                                                                                                             4                          4                               ⁶
  The Golden Snitch                  A slice utility compact() that removes consecutive runs of equal elements in-place, returning the modified (and possibly shorter) slice. A direct port of Go's slices.Compact.                                                                                                                                                               4                          5                               ⁷
  The Quaffle                        A slice utility union() that returns a new slice containing the unique elements from a set of input slices. Inspired by lodash.union.                                                                                                                                                                                                        4                          4                               ²⁰
  The Bludger                        A slice utility xor() that returns the symmetric difference of a set of input slices (elements that appear in an odd number of the input slices). Inspired by lodash.xor.                                                                                                                                                                    3                          4                               ²⁰
  The Deluminator                    An iterator adaptor dropwhile(predicate) that drops elements from the start of an iterator while the predicate is true, then yields all subsequent elements. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                                                        4                          4                               ⁹
  The Remembrall                     An iterator adaptor takewhile(predicate) that yields elements from the start of an iterator as long as the predicate is true, then stops. The opposite of dropwhile. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                                                4                          4                               ⁹
  The Sword of Gryffindor            An iterator adaptor compress(selectors) that filters an iterator, yielding only the elements where the corresponding element in a boolean selectors iterator is true. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                                               4                          5                               ⁵
  The Elder Wand                     A starmap(func) iterator adaptor that takes an iterator of tuples and applies a function func to the unpacked elements of each tuple. E.g., [(2, 5), (3, 2)].starmap(pow) yields 32, 9. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                             4                          5                               ⁹
  The Resurrection Stone             A zip_longest(fill_value) iterator that works like the standard zip but continues until the longest iterator is exhausted, filling in missing values from shorter iterators with a fill_value. From Python's itertools.                                                                                                                      5                          4                               ⁹
  The Diadem of Ravenclaw            A slice utility sorted_index(value) that performs a binary search on a sorted slice to find the index where value should be inserted to maintain order. A port of lodash.sortedIndex.                                                                                                                                                        4                          5                               ²⁰
  The Locket of Slytherin            A slice utility intersection() that computes the set intersection of multiple slices, returning a new slice with the common elements. A port of lodash.intersection.                                                                                                                                                                         4                          4                               ²⁰
  The Cup of Hufflepuff              A partition(predicate) function for iterators that consumes the iterator and returns two collections: one with elements for which the predicate was true, and one for which it was false. A port of lodash.partition.                                                                                                                        5                          4                               ²⁰
  The Boggart                        A groupBy(key_func) function for iterators that consumes the iterator and returns a HashMap where keys are derived from the key_func and values are Vecs of the grouped items. A port of lodash.groupBy.                                                                                                                                     5                          4                               ²⁰
  The Dementor's Kiss                An unzip() function that reverses the operation of zip. Given an iterator of tuples like [(a1, b1), (a2, b2)], it returns two collections: [a1, a2] and [b1, b2]. A port of lodash.unzip.                                                                                                                                                    4                          4                               ²⁰
  The Patronus Charm                 A reject(predicate) function for iterators that is the opposite of filter. It returns a new collection containing only the elements for which the predicate returns false. A port of lodash.reject.                                                                                                                                          4                          5                               ²⁰

The Hacker's Delight Spellbook (Bit Manipulation & Low-Level Tricks)

This section focuses on algorithms that operate at the bit and byte
level, drawing heavily from the canonical text "Hacker's Delight".¹⁰
These functions are ideal for Rust, which can provide safe,
high-performance, and portable abstractions over low-level CPU
intrinsics. A key value proposition for these crates is encapsulating
the complexity of platform-specific

unsafe code (e.g., using std::arch for SIMD or population count
instructions) behind a simple, safe, and tested API that falls back to a
pure Rust implementation when intrinsics are unavailable.²¹

  Crate Name (Harry Potter Themed)   Description & Reasoning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Probability of PMF (1-5)   Ease of Success-Testing (1-5)   Relevant Artifacts (Links)
  ---------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------------
  Lumos Maxima                       A function nlz(n) (Number of Leading Zeros) or clz for all integer primitives. This is a fundamental operation for integer logarithms and floating-point manipulation. The crate would use the leading_zeros intrinsic and provide a consistent API.                 5                          5                               ²¹
  Nox                                A function ntz(n) (Number of Trailing Zeros) or ctz for all integer primitives. The counterpart to nlz, useful for finding the lowest set bit. It would use the trailing_zeros intrinsic.                                                                            5                          5                               ²³
  Geminio                            A function popcount(n) (Population Count) that counts the number of set (1) bits in an integer. This is extremely useful in cryptography, error-correcting codes, and bioinformatics. It would use the popcnt CPU intrinsic where available.                         5                          5                               ²³
  Finite Incantatem                  A function is_power_of_two(n) that uses the bitwise trick n > 0 && (n & (n - 1) == 0) to determine if a number is a power of two. This is far more efficient than loops or logarithms.                                                                               5                          5                               ²¹
  Wingardium Leviosa                 A function next_power_of_two(n) that finds the smallest power of two greater than or equal to n. A common requirement in graphics and memory allocation for aligning data to power-of-two boundaries.                                                                4                          5                               ²³
  Reducto                            A function floor_log2(n) that computes floor(log2(n)) for an integer n using nlz. This is an O(1) operation on modern CPUs, vastly outperforming floating-point conversions.                                                                                         4                          5                               ²³
  Engorgio                           A function ceil_log2(n) that computes ceil(log2(n)) for an integer n, also using bit manipulation.                                                                                                                                                                   4                          5                               ²³
  Impervius                          A function parity(n) that determines if the number of set bits in n is even or odd. Can be implemented efficiently with XOR folding or by checking the last bit of popcount(n). Used in error checking.                                                              3                          5                               ²³
  Confundo                           A function bit_reverse(n) that reverses the order of bits in an integer. For 0b11010000, it would return 0b00001011. Essential for some FFT algorithms and cryptographic routines. Would use the bitreverse intrinsic.                                               4                          5                               ²³
  Muffliato                          A function byte_swap(n) that reverses the byte order (endianness) of an integer. For 0x12345678, it would return 0x78563412. Would use the bswap intrinsic.                                                                                                          5                          5                               ²³
  Sectumsempra                       A function extract_bits(n, pos, len) that extracts a field of len bits starting at bit pos from n. Can be implemented with shifts and masks.                                                                                                                         4                          5                               ²¹
  Episkey                            A function deposit_bits(n, field, pos, len) that deposits the bits from field into n at bit pos with a mask of len. The inverse of extract_bits.                                                                                                                     4                          5                               ²¹
  Oppugno                            A function pdep(source, mask) (Parallel Deposit), which scatters bits from source to the positions indicated by set bits in mask. A powerful permutation primitive available in modern CPUs (BMI2).                                                                  3                          4                               ²¹
  Carpe Retractum                    A function pext(source, mask) (Parallel Extract), which gathers bits from source at the positions indicated by set bits in mask and packs them into the low-order bits of the result. The inverse of pdep.                                                           3                          4                               ²¹
  The Unbreakable Vow                A function sign_extend(x, b) that extends the sign of an integer x from b bits to the full width of the type. For example, extending a 4-bit signed -1 (0b1111) to 8 bits (0b11111111).                                                                              3                          5                               ²³
  The Dark Mark                      A function isolate_rightmost_one(n) which returns a number with only the lowest set bit of n remaining. The trick is n & -n. Useful in Fenwick trees and other algorithms.                                                                                           4                          5                               ²⁴
  Priori Incantatem                  A function clear_rightmost_one(n) which clears the lowest set bit of n. The trick is n & (n - 1). Used in Brian Kernighan's popcount algorithm.                                                                                                                      4                          5                               ²⁵
  The Trace                          A function average_floor(a, b) that computes (a + b) / 2 without overflowing. The trick is (a & b) + ((a ^ b) >> 1).                                                                                                                                                 3                          5                               ²³
  The Fidelius Charm                 A collection of functions for division by a known constant using multiplication and shifts (magic numbers). For a given constant D, pre-calculates a "magic number" M and a shift s such that (n * M) >> s equals n / D. Extremely fast when the divisor is fixed.   3                          4                               ²³
  The Vanishing Cabinet              An implementation of the "compress" or "generalized extract" operation, which packs selected bits from a word to one side. For example, compressing 0b10110101 with mask 0b11001100 might yield 0b00001001.                                                          2                          4                               ²³
  The Hand of Glory                  An implementation of the "expand" or "generalized insert" operation, the inverse of compress. It unpacks bits from one side of a word into positions specified by a mask.                                                                                            2                          4                               ²³
  The Gray Code Grimoire             Functions to convert an integer to its Gray code representation (n ^ (n >> 1)) and back. Gray codes are useful in error correction and state machines, as only one bit changes between consecutive values.                                                           3                          5                               ²³
  The Hilbert Curve Hex              Functions to convert 2D coordinates (x, y) to a distance d along a Hilbert space-filling curve, and back. This preserves locality, mapping nearby 2D points to nearby 1D distances. Useful in spatial indexing and databases.                                        2                          2                               ²⁷
  The Hamming Code Charm             Functions to encode data with a simple Hamming code for single-error correction and double-error detection (SEC-DED). A classic algorithm from information theory.                                                                                                   2                          3                               ¹⁰
  The CRC Spellbook                  A no_std library for calculating various Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) values (e.g., CRC-32, CRC-64). While crc crates exist, a minimal, no_std, zero-dependency implementation focused on the core bitwise algorithms would be valuable for embedded systems.       3                          4                               ¹⁰

The Restricted Section of the Library (Algorithms from CS Research)

This section translates theoretical computer science concepts into
practical, high-value Rust crates. These are areas where Rust's
performance and memory model are not just beneficial but essential. The
academic world for these algorithms is dominated by C++ implementations,
which are often complex and memory-unsafe. Rust offers a unique
opportunity to create next-generation implementations that are just as
fast but are also safe, ergonomic, and easy to integrate via Cargo.²⁸

  Crate Name (Harry Potter Themed)      Description & Reasoning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Probability of PMF (1-5)   Ease of Success-Testing (1-5)   Relevant Artifacts (Links)
  ------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------------
  Hermione's Beaded Bag                 A RankSelectBitvector struct. This is a bit vector that supports O(1) rank (count bits up to an index) and select (find the index of the k-th bit) queries. It is the fundamental building block of nearly all modern succinct data structures and is a glaring omission in the Rust ecosystem.                 4                          3                               ³⁰
  The Prophet's Orb                     A WaveletTree struct. A compact data structure that represents a sequence of symbols and supports rank, select, and access queries in O(log σ) time, where σ is the alphabet size. It has major applications in text processing, bioinformatics, and computational geometry.                                    3                          2                               ²⁸
  The Hogwarts Castle                   A K2Tree struct. A compact representation of a cardinal tree (and by extension, quadtrees or sparse grids) using bit vectors. It offers significant space savings for clustered data and is used in graph databases and spatial indexing.                                                                       2                          2                               ³⁰
  Protego Totalum                       A function convex_hull(points) that implements an efficient 2D convex hull algorithm, such as Graham Scan or Chan's Algorithm. This is one of the most fundamental algorithms in computational geometry.                                                                                                        4                          2                               ³¹
  The Four-Point Spell                  A function point_in_polygon(point, polygon) that implements a robust point-in-polygon test, likely using the winding number or ray casting algorithm. A core primitive for geospatial and graphics applications.                                                                                                5                          2                               ²⁹
  The Spider's Web                      An implementation of the Bentley-Ottmann algorithm, a plane-sweep algorithm for finding all intersection points among a set of line segments. It is an output-sensitive algorithm, making it efficient when intersections are sparse.                                                                           3                          2                               ²⁹
  The Delaunay Charm                    A function delaunay_triangulation(points) that implements the randomized incremental Delaunay triangulation algorithm. This structure is dual to the Voronoi diagram and is fundamental in mesh generation, interpolation, and surface reconstruction.                                                          3                          2                               ³¹
  The Voronoi Diagram                   A function voronoi_diagram(points) that computes the Voronoi diagram for a set of points, likely using Fortune's plane-sweep algorithm. Each region contains points closer to one site than any other.                                                                                                          3                          1                               ³¹
  The Half-Blood Prince's Potion Book   A function half_plane_intersection(planes) that computes the intersection of a set of half-planes, resulting in a convex polygon. This is the dual problem to convex hull and is used in linear programming and geometric modeling.                                                                             3                          2                               ³²
  The Liquid Luck                       A function linear_program_2d(constraints, objective) that solves a 2D linear programming problem in O(n) expected time using a randomized incremental algorithm.                                                                                                                                                3                          3                               ³²
  The Parseltongue                      An implementation of the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm for optimal global sequence alignment. A cornerstone of bioinformatics, it uses dynamic programming to align two DNA or protein sequences from end to end.                                                                                                  3                          3                               ³³
  The Serpent's Fang                    An implementation of the Smith-Waterman algorithm for optimal local sequence alignment. Unlike Needleman-Wunsch, it finds the most similar sub-regions between two sequences, making it better for divergent sequences.                                                                                         3                          3                               ³³
  The Memory Charm                      A cache-oblivious matrix transposition algorithm. This recursive algorithm partitions the matrix into sub-problems, achieving near-optimal cache performance on any memory hierarchy without needing to be tuned with cache-size parameters.                                                                    2                          3                               ³⁶
  The Sorting Spell                     A cache-oblivious sorting algorithm, like the Funnelsort or the cache-oblivious distribution sort. These algorithms are designed to be asymptotically optimal in terms of cache misses on a multi-level memory hierarchy.                                                                                       2                          2                               ³⁶
  The Fountain of Fair Fortune          A streaming algorithm for Count-Min Sketch. This is a probabilistic data structure that serves as a frequency table of events in a stream of data. It uses a sub-linear amount of space at the cost of a small overestimation error.                                                                            3                          3                               ³⁹
  The Well of Wondrous Wit              A streaming algorithm for HyperLogLog. This is another probabilistic algorithm for the count-distinct problem, which approximates the number of distinct elements in a multiset. It is extremely space-efficient.                                                                                               3                          3                               ³⁹
  The Tale of the Three Brothers        An implementation of Hirschberg's algorithm for sequence alignment in linear space. It is a divide-and-conquer optimization of the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm, crucial for aligning very long sequences where quadratic space is prohibitive.                                                                   2                          2                               ⁴⁰
  The Doubly-Connected Edge List        A robust implementation of the Doubly-Connected Edge List (DCEL) or Half-edge data structure. This is not an algorithm itself, but a fundamental data structure for representing planar subdivisions, required by many other geometry algorithms. A safe, ergonomic Rust implementation would be a huge boon.   4                          2                               ⁴²
  The Rotating Calipers                 An algorithm that, given a convex polygon, can find properties like its diameter, width, or minimum-area bounding box in linear time. It works by "rotating" a pair of parallel supporting lines around the polygon.                                                                                            2                          2                               ³¹
  The Shoelace Formula                  A simple function to calculate the area of a polygon given its vertices' coordinates using the shoelace (or surveyor's) formula. Mathematically trivial but a very common need.                                                                                                                                 5                          4                               ²⁹
  The Gift-Wrapping Algorithm           An implementation of the Jarvis march (gift wrapping) algorithm for finding the convex hull. While asymptotically slower (O(nh), where h is the number of hull vertices) than Graham Scan, it is simpler to implement and can be faster for small h.                                                            3                          3                               ²⁹
  The Quickhull Algorithm               An implementation of the Quickhull algorithm for finding the convex hull. It uses a divide-and-conquer approach analogous to Quicksort and has an average time complexity of O(n log n).                                                                                                                        3                          2                               ²⁹
  The Nussinov Algorithm                A dynamic programming algorithm for predicting the secondary structure of an RNA molecule by finding the maximum number of base pairs. A classic bioinformatics algorithm.                                                                                                                                      2                          2                               ⁴⁰
  The Baum-Welch Algorithm              An implementation of the Baum-Welch algorithm, which uses the expectation-maximization algorithm to find the unknown parameters of a Hidden Markov Model (HMM). Essential for gene prediction and sequence analysis.                                                                                            2                          1                               ⁴⁰
  The Ukkonen's Algorithm               An online algorithm for constructing a suffix tree in linear time. Suffix trees are powerful data structures for string searching and related problems.                                                                                                                                                         2                          1                               ⁴⁰

The Potions Cabinet (Numerical & Statistical Methods)

This section proposes small, single-purpose crates for common numerical
and statistical tasks. Large scientific computing libraries like
Python's scipy bundle hundreds of functions into a single, monolithic
dependency. The Rust ecosystem, however, favors a more "unbundled"
approach with smaller, focused libraries that have minimal dependency
trees. This presents a clear opportunity: create a micro-crate for each
major statistical test, allowing users to select only the specific
"potion" they need for their analysis.⁴³

  Crate Name (Harry Potter Themed)      Description & Reasoning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Probability of PMF (1-5)   Ease of Success-Testing (1-5)   Relevant Artifacts (Links)
  ------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------- ------------------------------- ----------------------------
  Veritaserum                           A function for the one-sample and two-sample Student's t-test. This is one of the most fundamental statistical tests for comparing the means of one or two groups.                                                                                                                      5                          3                               ⁴³
  The Draught of Peace                  A function for Welch's t-test, an adaptation of the t-test that is more reliable when the two samples have unequal variances.                                                                                                                                                           4                          3                               ⁴⁵
  Felix Felicis                         A function to calculate the Pearson correlation coefficient between two sets of data, measuring the linear relationship between them.                                                                                                                                                   5                          4                               ⁴³
  The Polyjuice Potion                  A function to calculate Spearman's rank correlation coefficient. This is a non-parametric measure of rank correlation, assessing how well the relationship between two variables can be described using a monotonic function.                                                           4                          3                               ⁴⁷
  The Draught of Living Death           A function for the Mann-Whitney U test (or Wilcoxon rank-sum test). A non-parametric test used to determine whether two independent samples were selected from populations having the same distribution.                                                                                4                          3                               ⁴³
  The Elixir of Life                    A function for the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. A non-parametric test used for paired samples to assess whether their population mean ranks differ.                                                                                                                                       4                          3                               ⁴⁷
  The Wolfsbane Potion                  A function for the Chi-squared test, used for goodness of fit or to test the independence of two categorical variables in a contingency table.                                                                                                                                          5                          3                               ⁴³
  The Babbling Beverage                 A function for the Kruskal-Wallis H test. A non-parametric test for determining if there are statistically significant differences between two or more groups of an independent variable on a continuous or ordinal dependent variable. It is the non-parametric equivalent of ANOVA.   3                          3                               ⁴⁷
  The Shrinking Solution                A function for Fisher's exact test, used for analyzing contingency tables when sample sizes are small.                                                                                                                                                                                  3                          3                               ⁴⁵
  The Befuddlement Draught              A one-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) function to compare the means of three or more groups.                                                                                                                                                                                           4                          2                               ⁴³
  The Levene Test                       A function for Levene's test, an inferential statistic used to assess the equality of variances for a variable calculated for two or more groups. It is a prerequisite for some comparison tests like ANOVA.                                                                            3                          3                               ⁴⁵
  The Shapiro-Wilk Test                 A function for the Shapiro-Wilk test, a test of normality in frequentist statistics. It is a common prerequisite for using parametric tests.                                                                                                                                            3                          3                               ⁴⁸
  The G-Test of Goodness-of-Fit         An implementation of the G-test, which is a likelihood-ratio or maximum likelihood statistical significance test that is increasingly used in situations where chi-squared tests were previously recommended.                                                                           2                          3                               ⁴⁵
  The Kolmogorov-Smirnov Test           A function for the one-sample and two-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test. It is a non-parametric test of the equality of continuous, one-dimensional probability distributions.                                                                                                       3                          2                               ⁴⁵
  The Binomial Test                     A function for the binomial test of statistical significance. It is used when an experiment has two possible outcomes (success and failure) and you have an idea about what the probability of success is.                                                                              4                          4                               ⁴⁵
  The F-Test of Equality of Variances   A function to perform an F-test to check if two population variances are equal. The test statistic is the ratio of the two sample variances.                                                                                                                                            3                          3                               ⁴⁵
  The Kendall's Tau                     A function to calculate Kendall's rank correlation coefficient (Tau), which is a statistic used to measure the ordinal association between two measured quantities.                                                                                                                     3                          3                               ⁴⁹
  The Confusion Concoction              A small library to generate confusion matrices and calculate related metrics (accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score) from predicted and actual labels. While more ML-oriented, the core calculations are simple and universally needed.                                                 5                          5                               ⁵⁰
  The Root of Mandrake                  An implementation of the integer square root algorithm, which computes floor(sqrt(n)) for an integer n without using floating-point arithmetic. Can be done efficiently with bit manipulation.                                                                                          3                          5                               ²³
  The Bezoar                            A small crate for robustly calculating basic descriptive statistics (mean, median, mode, variance, standard deviation) on an iterator of numbers, with careful handling of floating-point precision issues.                                                                             5                          3                               ⁴⁷

Works cited

1.  rust-unofficial/awesome-rust: A curated list of Rust code and
      resources. - GitHub, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://github.com/rust-unofficial/awesome-rust

2.  Awesome Rust - GitHub, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://github.com/awesome-rust-com/awesome-rust

3.  Categories - crates.io: Rust Package Registry, accessed on August
      15, 2025, https://crates.io/categories

4.  Category Slugs - Rust Package Registry - Crates.io, accessed on
      August 15, 2025, https://crates.io/category_slugs

5.  What are itertools in Python? - Educative.io, accessed on August 15,
      2025,
      https://www.educative.io/answers/what-are-itertools-in-python

6.  Python's collections: A Buffet of Specialized Data Types - Real
      Python, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://realpython.com/python-collections-module/

7.  slices package - slices - Go Packages, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://pkg.go.dev/slices

8.  Lodash Quick Guide - Tutorialspoint, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.tutorialspoint.com/lodash/lodash_quick_guide.htm

9.  itertools — Functions creating iterators for efficient looping —
      Python 3.10.17 documentation, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://docs.python.org/3.10/library/itertools.html?highlight=pairwise

10. Hackers Delight 2nd Edition | Powell's Books, accessed on August 15,
      2025,
      https://www.powells.com/book/hackers-delight-2nd-edition-9780321842688

11. Compact Data Structures: A Practical Approach, accessed on August
      15, 2025,
      https://api.pageplace.de/preview/DT0400.9781316792926_A27740717/preview-9781316792926_A27740717.pdf

12. Python Itertools Module, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.pythoncheatsheet.org/modules/itertools-module

13. itertools — Functions creating iterators for efficient looping —
      Python ..., accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://docs.python.org/3/library/itertools.html

14. Python Collections Module - GeeksforGeeks, accessed on August 15,
      2025,
      https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/python-collections-module/

15. collections — Container datatypes — Python 3.13.7 documentation,
      accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html

16. 10 Most Useful Itertools Methods (63/100 Days of Python) | by Martin
      Mirakyan - Medium, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://martinxpn.medium.com/10-most-useful-itertools-methods-63-100-days-of-python-b7e7a93639c3

17. More Itertools - more-itertools 10.7.0 documentation, accessed on
      August 15, 2025, https://more-itertools.readthedocs.io/

18. slices package - golang.org/x/exp/slices - Go Packages, accessed on
      August 15, 2025, https://pkg.go.dev/golang.org/x/exp/slices

19. Lodash Documentation, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15

20. Bit manipulation - Wikipedia, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bit_manipulation

21. Bitwise Algorithms - GeeksforGeeks, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dsa/bitwise-algorithms/

22. Hacker's Delight by Henry Warren, Hardcover | Barnes & Noble®,
      accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/hackers-delight-henry-warren/1117355434

23. Basics of Bit Manipulation Tutorials & Notes | Basic Programming -
      HackerEarth, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.hackerearth.com/practice/basic-programming/bit-manipulation/basics-of-bit-manipulation/tutorial/

24. Bit manipulation - Algorithms for Competitive Programming, accessed
      on August 15, 2025,
      https://cp-algorithms.com/algebra/bit-manipulation.html

25. The basics of bit manipulation - Educative.io, accessed on August
      15, 2025,
      https://www.educative.io/blog/bit-manipulation-algorithms

26. Hacker's Delight, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.pearson.de/media/muster/toc/toc_9780133085006.pdf

27. Compact Data Structures Meet Databases - DROPS, accessed on August
      15, 2025,
      https://drops.dagstuhl.de/storage/00lipics/lipics-vol255-icdt2023/LIPIcs.ICDT.2023.2/LIPIcs.ICDT.2023.2.pdf

28. Computational geometry - Wikipedia, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_geometry

29. Compact Data Structures Meet Databases - DCC UChile, accessed on
      August 15, 2025,
      https://users.dcc.uchile.cl/~gnavarro/ps/icdt23.pdf

30. Computational Geometry - Algorithms for Geometry - GeeksforGeeks,
      accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dsa/what-is-computational-geometry-and-how-is-it-applied-in-solving-geometric-problems/

31. Computational Geometry Algorithms and Applications, accessed on
      August 15, 2025,
      https://www.cs.cmu.edu/afs/cs/academic/class/15456-s14/Handouts/BKOS.pdf

32. Sequence alignment - Wikipedia, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sequence_alignment

33. Sequence Alignment- Definition, Types, Methods, Uses, accessed on
      August 15, 2025,
      https://microbenotes.com/local-global-multiple-sequence-alignment/

34. Job Dispatcher < EMBL-EBI, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.ebi.ac.uk/jdispatcher/psa

35. (PDF) Cache-oblivious algorithms - ResearchGate, accessed on August
      15, 2025,
      https://www.researchgate.net/publication/3832223_Cache-oblivious_algorithms

36. Cache-Oblivious Algorithms, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/6-895-theory-of-parallel-systems-sma-5509-fall-2003/6dc7de52dcf13b53cebf2fe10ae6752a_cach_oblvs_thsis.pdf

37. Cache-Oblivious and Cache-Aware Algorithms - DROPS - Schloss
      Dagstuhl, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://drops.dagstuhl.de/storage/16dagstuhl-seminar-proceedings/dsp-vol04301/DagSemProc.04301.1/DagSemProc.04301.1.pdf

38. Graph Stream Algorithms: A Survey∗, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://people.cs.umass.edu/~mcgregor/papers/13-graphsurvey.pdf

39. Category:Bioinformatics algorithms - Wikipedia, accessed on August
      15, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Bioinformatics_algorithms

40. Bioinformatic Algorithms - Department of Computer Science and
      Technology |, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~pl219/Bioinformatics2015.pdf

41. Computational Geometry - Algorithms and Applications, accessed on
      August 15, 2025,
      https://cimec.org.ar/foswiki/pub/Main/Cimec/GeometriaComputacional/DeBerg_-_Computational_Geometry_-_Algorithms_and_Applications_2e.pdf

42. Commonly Used Statistical Tests in Data Science - StrataScratch,
      accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.stratascratch.com/blog/commonly-used-statistical-tests-in-data-science/

43. Essential Statistical Tests for Data Scientists - DASCA
      certification, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.dasca.org/world-of-data-science/article/essential-statistical-tests-for-data-scientists

44. Category:Statistical tests - Wikipedia, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Statistical_tests

45. The three most common statistical tests you should deeply
      understand - APA Divisions, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.apadivisions.org/division-5/publications/score/2024/10/common-statistical-tests

46. Choosing the Right Statistical Test | Types & Examples - Scribbr,
      accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.scribbr.com/statistics/statistical-tests/

47. 18 Simple statistical tests - The Epidemiologist R Handbook,
      accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://epirhandbook.com/en/new_pages/stat_tests.html

48. List of Statistical Procedures - NCSS, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://www.ncss.com/software/ncss/procedures/

49. Awesome Rust Mentors - github, accessed on August 15, 2025,
      https://rustbeginners.github.io/awesome-rust-mentors/
