Strategic Contribution: A Data-Driven Guide to the Top 100 Rust Repositories for Career Advancement

Introduction - The Rust OSS Ecosystem as a Career Accelerator

The modern software development landscape is characterized by a
relentless pursuit of performance and reliability. In this context, the
Rust programming language has emerged as a critical technology, offering
a compelling combination of speed, memory safety, and high-level
ergonomics. This unique value proposition has driven its adoption in
production environments at industry-leading corporations, including
Amazon Web Services, Google, Huawei, Microsoft, and Mozilla, who are
also founding members of the Rust Foundation.¹ Rust's core tenets of
performance, reliability, and productivity make it an ideal choice for
building foundational software—the critical services, tools, and
infrastructure upon which other applications depend.³

For the discerning developer, this industry-wide adoption signals a
significant and growing demand for Rust expertise. Open-source software
(OSS) provides the most direct and meritocratic avenue for developing
and demonstrating this expertise. Engaging with the Rust OSS ecosystem
is not merely a hobby or an act of altruism; it is a deliberate and
powerful career strategy. A public record of high-quality contributions
to a reputable project serves as an undeniable, long-form technical
interview, showcasing not only coding proficiency but also skills in
collaboration, problem-solving, and navigating complex codebases. This
report provides a data-driven framework for identifying
high-return-on-investment (ROI) opportunities within the Rust OSS
ecosystem, designed to guide a strategic developer in leveraging their
contributions for maximum career impact.

The methodology employed in this report is analytical and rigorous. It
moves beyond simple popularity metrics by synthesizing a wide array of
signals—repository statistics, corporate sponsorship, venture capital
funding, and active hiring data—to generate proprietary metrics. These
metrics, the "Reputation Score" and "Probability of Hiring," are
designed to provide a clear, actionable assessment of where a
developer's time and talent can be most effectively invested to achieve
their professional goals. This analysis aims to transform the
often-chaotic landscape of open source into a structured map of career
opportunities.

A Framework for Evaluating OSS Career Opportunities

To effectively navigate the Rust OSS ecosystem for career advancement, a
structured evaluation framework is essential. This framework moves
beyond surface-level metrics like star counts to provide a
multi-dimensional view of a project's potential as a career vehicle. The
following proprietary metrics have been developed to quantify project
prestige, estimate hiring potential, and gauge overall project health.

The Reputation Score: Quantifying Project Prestige

The Reputation Score is a composite metric, normalized on a scale of 1
to 100, designed to represent a project's overall prestige and influence
within the developer community. A higher score indicates a project that
is widely recognized, respected, and actively maintained, making
contributions to it more valuable on a resume. The score is calculated
as a weighted average of several key indicators:

-   GitHub Stars: This is the primary indicator of broad developer
      interest and approval. A high star count signifies that a project
      has captured the attention of the community.⁵

-   Fork Count: Forks represent a deeper level of engagement, indicating
      that developers are not just interested in a project but are
      actively experimenting with its code, proposing changes, or using
      it as a foundation for their own work.⁵

-   Contributor Count: The total number of unique contributors is a
      measure of a project's ability to build and sustain a development
      community. A large and active contributor base is a strong signal
      of a healthy, collaborative environment.⁷

-   Influence of Key Personnel: A qualitative bonus is applied to
      projects led or heavily influenced by highly respected figures in
      the Rust community. The involvement of core language contributors
      or creators of seminal libraries (e.g., Andrew Gallant, Niko
      Matsakis, Mara Bos) lends significant credibility and technical
      authority to a project.⁴

Probability of Hiring: From Contribution to Employment

The ultimate goal for a strategic contributor is to translate their
efforts into employment. The "Probability of Hiring" metric categorizes
repositories into three tiers based on the directness of the path from
contribution to a paid role.

-   High: This category is reserved for projects that are the core
      product of a well-funded commercial entity that is actively hiring
      Rust developers. These are typically venture-backed startups where
      the line between the open-source project and the company's mission
      is nonexistent. Signals include a dedicated careers page with
      relevant Rust roles, significant VC funding rounds, and a clear
      business model. Contributing to these projects is akin to a
      direct, public audition for a job. Prime examples include the code
      editor zed by Zed Industries and the Python toolchain projects uv
      and ruff by Astral.²⁰

-   Medium: This tier includes projects with strong corporate or
      foundation backing, where a hiring path exists but may be less
      direct. This can include projects maintained by a non-profit
      foundation that hires core maintainers (e.g., the Bevy Foundation)
      or projects from large tech companies that hire Rust developers
      for various teams, not exclusively for the specific OSS project.²⁴
      The connection between a contribution and a job offer is strong
      but may require more proactive networking.

-   Low: These are typically community-driven, academic, or
      individual-led "passion projects." While they may be technically
      excellent and highly reputable, they lack a formal corporate
      entity or hiring pipeline. Contributions to these projects are
      immensely valuable for skill development, reputation building, and
      networking. The career benefits are indirect; the skills and
      reputation gained are transferable assets that make a developer a
      more attractive candidate for any Rust position, but there is no
      direct "contribute-to-hire" pathway within the project itself.
      Classic examples include ripgrep and nushell.¹⁸

Commit Velocity: A Barometer of Project Health

Commit velocity, measured by the frequency of commits and releases,
serves as a crucial proxy for a project's overall health and its
suitability for new contributors.⁷ A repository with high and consistent
activity indicates several positive attributes:

-   Project Vitality: The project is actively being developed, with new
      features, bug fixes, and performance improvements being regularly
      integrated. This signals long-term viability.

-   Maintainer Responsiveness: An active commit log often correlates
      with responsive maintainers who are more likely to review pull
      requests, provide feedback, and merge contributions in a timely
      manner. This is critical for a positive and productive
      contribution experience.

-   Opportunity Flow: High-velocity projects typically have a constant
      stream of open issues and a clear roadmap, providing ample
      opportunities for both new and experienced contributors to find
      meaningful work.

The landscape of Rust OSS is not monolithic; it represents a spectrum of
commercialization. At one end are venture-backed startups like Zed
Industries and Astral, where the OSS project is the product, making the
path to employment explicit and direct. In the middle are entities like
Deno Land Inc. and Tauri Apps, which balance corporate goals with strong
community and foundational elements.²⁷ At the other end are foundational
community projects like

ripgrep, born from the work of a single, highly skilled individual.¹⁸
Understanding where a project falls on this spectrum is fundamental to
aligning one's contribution strategy with their career expectations.

The Landscape: Analysis of Key Rust Project Categories

The most promising Rust repositories for career advancement are not
randomly distributed but are clustered into distinct technical domains.
Each domain presents a unique set of technical challenges, market
demands, and career trajectories. Understanding these categories allows
a developer to strategically align their personal interests and existing
skills with the areas of highest growth and opportunity.

Infrastructure & Developer Tooling: The "Python-in-Rust" Gold Rush

A significant and commercially vibrant trend within the Rust ecosystem
is the rewriting of critical developer tooling from other languages,
particularly Python and JavaScript. Projects like Astral's uv and ruff,
and Vercel's swc, are prime examples.⁵ These projects leverage Rust's
exceptional performance to solve long-standing problems of speed and
complexity in massive, mature ecosystems.

The market opportunity here is immense. Python and JavaScript power a
vast portion of the software industry but are often hampered by slow
linters, formatters, and package managers. Companies like Astral have
identified that selling a superior developer experience—powered by
Rust's speed—is a highly viable business model.²² They are well-funded
and their core mission is to hire Rust engineers to work directly on
these open-source tools. For a job-seeking contributor, this domain
represents the most direct and lucrative path to employment.
Contributions are not just a demonstration of skill; they are a direct
engagement with the company's primary product, making the contributor a
known and proven quantity when hiring decisions are made.

Data Engineering & Analytics

Rust's guarantees of memory safety without a garbage collector, combined
with its raw computational performance, make it an ideal language for
data-intensive applications. This has led to the rise of a new
generation of data engineering tools written in Rust that challenge the
dominance of Python-based solutions like pandas. The most prominent
example is polars, a high-performance DataFrame library that has rapidly
gained traction for its speed and expressive API.³⁰

The existence of Polars as a funded company with $4 million in backing
from top-tier venture capital firms like Accel demonstrates the
commercial viability of this space.³² The company is actively hiring
engineers to work on its query engine and performance optimization,
creating a clear career path for developers with skills in both Rust and
data systems.³³ Other significant projects in this area include

tikv, a distributed transactional key-value database that forms the
foundation of TiDB, and a growing ecosystem of other specialized
databases and data processing libraries.³⁴ This category is ideal for
developers interested in high-performance computing, query optimization,
and building the next generation of data analysis tools.

Application Frameworks & UI (Desktop, Web, Game)

Historically viewed as a language for systems-level programming, Rust is
increasingly being used to build user-facing applications. This "move up
the stack" is enabled by a maturing ecosystem of powerful application
frameworks.

-   Desktop Applications: tauri allows developers to build smaller,
      faster, and more secure cross-platform desktop applications using
      a web frontend, presenting a modern alternative to frameworks like
      Electron.⁵

-   Code Editors & IDEs: zed is a high-performance, multiplayer code
      editor built from the ground up in Rust, pushing the boundaries of
      what is possible in developer tooling.⁵

-   Game Development: bevy has emerged as the leading data-driven game
      engine in the Rust ecosystem, praised for its simplicity,
      performance, and modular architecture.³⁵

-   WebAssembly (Wasm): yew is a component-based framework for creating
      frontend web applications that compile to WebAssembly, enabling
      developers to write highly performant web UIs entirely in Rust.³⁷

This trend significantly broadens the scope of a "Rust job." It is no
longer confined to infrastructure and backend services. Developers can
now specialize in building rich, interactive applications for the
desktop, web, or gaming consoles using Rust, opening up career paths in
product engineering and user experience development.

Web3 & Decentralized Systems

The blockchain and decentralized technology (Web3) space has been a
major adopter of Rust from its early days. The language's strong
emphasis on security, correctness, and performance makes it a natural
fit for building protocols and infrastructure where billions of dollars
in assets may be at stake. Projects like fuel-core, a full node
implementation for the Fuel v2 protocol, are indicative of the complex,
performance-critical work being done in this area.⁵

The influence of key figures from the blockchain world, such as Gavin
Wood (co-founder of Ethereum and creator of Polkadot), has further
cemented Rust's position as a premier language for Web3 development.¹⁷
While this sector can be highly lucrative and offers many opportunities
for Rust developers, it is also subject to greater market volatility
compared to more established domains like developer tooling or data
engineering. It is a high-risk, high-reward area for those interested in
the cutting edge of distributed systems and cryptography.

The Top 100 Rust Repositories for Strategic Contribution

The following table provides a comprehensive, data-driven ranking of 100
Rust repositories evaluated against the framework outlined in the
previous section. It is designed to be a primary tool for strategic
decision-making, allowing a developer to identify projects that best
align with their skills, interests, and career objectives.

How to Use This Table:

-   Repository: The name of the project and its owner, linked to the
      GitHub repository.

-   Description: A brief summary of the project's purpose.

-   Reputation Score (1-100): A composite metric of project prestige,
      combining stars, forks, and contributor counts. Higher is better.

-   Probability of Hiring (Low, Medium, High): An assessment of the
      directness of the path from contribution to employment with a
      related company or foundation.

-   Primary Skill Set: The core technical domains and competencies
      required to contribute effectively.

-   Commit Velocity: A qualitative assessment of project activity (High,
      Medium, Low), often supplemented with release frequency data. This
      serves as a proxy for maintainer responsiveness and the
      availability of contribution opportunities.

-   Key Contributors: Notable creators, maintainers, or influential
      figures associated with the project. Their presence often
      indicates strong technical leadership.

-   Sponsoring Companies / Foundation: The primary commercial or
      non-profit entities backing the project. This is a key input for
      the "Probability of Hiring" score.

  Rank   Repository                        Description                                                                                                                 Reputation Score   Probability of Hiring   Primary Skill Set                                        Commit Velocity               Key Contributors                                   Sponsoring Companies / Foundation
  ------ --------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------
  1      denoland/deno                     A modern runtime for JavaScript and TypeScript. ⁵                                                                           100                High                    Runtimes, V8, Tokio, Async Rust, TypeScript              High / Frequent Releases ⁷    Ryan Dahl, Bartek Iwańczuk                         Deno Land Inc. ²⁷
  2      tauri-apps/tauri                  Build smaller, faster, and more secure desktop applications with a web frontend. ⁵                                          99                 High                    Desktop Apps, Webview, UI/UX, JavaScript/TS Interop      High / Frequent Releases ⁸    Daniel Thompson-Yvetot, Lucas Fernandes Nogueira   CrabNebula, Tauri Foundation ⁸
  3      rustdesk/rustdesk                 An open-source remote desktop application. ⁵                                                                                98                 Medium                  Desktop Apps, Networking, UI (Flutter), Cross-Platform   High / Frequent Releases ⁹    N/A                                                Purslane Ltd. ⁴¹
  4      astral-sh/uv                      An extremely fast Python package and project manager. ⁵                                                                     97                 High                    Python Ecosystem, CLI Tools, Async Rust, Performance     High / Frequent Releases ¹⁰   Andrew Gallant (BurntSushi)                        Astral ²²
  5      zed-industries/zed                A high-performance, multiplayer code editor. ⁵                                                                              96                 High                    Desktop Apps, UI/UX, GPUI, Real-time Collaboration       High / Frequent Releases ¹¹   Nathan Sobo, Max Brunsfeld                         Zed Industries ²⁰
  6      FuelLabs/sway                     Smart contract language for the Fuel VM. ⁵                                                                                  95                 Medium                  Compilers, Blockchain, Web3, DSL Design                  High                          N/A                                                Fuel Labs ⁶
  7      alacritty/alacritty               A cross-platform, OpenGL terminal emulator. ⁵                                                                               94                 Low                     Terminal Emulators, Graphics (OpenGL), Performance       Medium                        Joe Wilm, Christian Duerr                          Community-driven
  8      BurntSushi/ripgrep                A line-oriented search tool that recursively searches directories for a regex pattern. ⁵                                    93                 Low                     CLI Tools, Regex, Performance, File I/O                  Low                           Andrew Gallant (BurntSushi)                        Individual-led
  9      meilisearch/meilisearch           A lightning-fast search engine API. ⁵                                                                                       92                 High                    Search Engines, Databases, HTTP APIs, Performance        High / Frequent Releases ¹³   Clément Renault, Quentin de Quelen                 Meilisearch ⁴²
  10     starship/starship                 The minimal, blazing-fast, and infinitely customizable prompt for any shell. ⁵                                              91                 Low                     CLI Tools, Shells, Configuration                         Medium                        Matan Kushner                                      Community-driven
  11     typst/typst                       A new markup-based typesetting system. ⁵                                                                                    90                 Medium                  Compilers, Typesetting, Document Layout, Fonts           High                          Laurenz Mädje, Martin Haug                         N/A
  12     astral-sh/ruff                    An extremely fast Python linter and code formatter. ⁵                                                                       89                 High                    Python Ecosystem, Linters, ASTs, Performance             High                          Charlie Marsh                                      Astral ²²
  13     bevyengine/bevy                   A refreshingly simple data-driven game engine. ⁵                                                                            88                 Medium                  Game Development, ECS, Graphics, 2D/3D Rendering         High / ~3 Month Cycle ¹²      Carter Anderson                                    Bevy Foundation ²⁴
  14     helix-editor/helix                A post-modern modal text editor. ⁵                                                                                          87                 Low                     Text Editors, TUI, Tree-sitter                           High                          Blaž Hrastnik                                      Community-driven
  15     pola-rs/polars                    Dataframes powered by a multithreaded, vectorized query engine. ⁵                                                           86                 High                    Dataframes, Data Science, Query Engines, Arrow           High / Weekly Releases ¹⁵     Ritchie Vink                                       Polars ³²
  16     sharkdp/fd                        A simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to 'find'. ⁵                                                                   85                 Low                     CLI Tools, File Systems, Performance                     Low                           David Peter                                        Individual-led
  17     lapce/lapce                       Lightning-fast and Powerful Code Editor. ⁵                                                                                  84                 Medium                  Text Editors, UI/UX, GPUI, Plugins                       High                          Dongdong Zhou                                      N/A
  18     nushell/nushell                   A new type of shell. ⁵                                                                                                      83                 Low                     Shells, CLI, Parsers, Structured Data                    High / Frequent Releases ¹⁶   Jonathan Turner, Andres N. Robalino                Community-driven
  19     swc-project/swc                   Rust-based platform for the Web. ⁵                                                                                          82                 High                    Compilers, JavaScript/TS, ASTs, Web Tooling              High                          DongYoon Kang                                      Vercel
  20     yewstack/yew                      Rust / Wasm framework for creating reliable and efficient web applications. ⁵                                               81                 Medium                  WebAssembly, Frontend, UI/UX, Component Architecture     Medium ¹⁴                     Hamza Jasim                                        Community / Yewstack Org
  21     influxdata/influxdb               Scalable datastore for metrics, events, and real-time analytics. ⁵                                                          80                 High                    Databases, Time Series, Distributed Systems              High                          N/A                                                InfluxData
  22     tokio-rs/tokio                    A runtime for writing reliable asynchronous applications with Rust. ⁴³                                                      79                 Medium                  Async Rust, Networking, Runtimes                         High                          Carl Lerche, Eliza Weisman                         N/A
  23     diesel-rs/diesel                  A safe, extensible ORM and Query Builder for Rust. ⁴³                                                                       78                 Low                     Databases, ORM, SQL, Macros                              Medium                        Sean Griffin                                       Community-driven
  24     actix/actix-web                   A powerful, pragmatic, and extremely fast web framework for Rust. ⁴³                                                        77                 Low                     Web Frameworks, HTTP, Async Rust                         Medium                        Nikolay Kim                                        Community-driven
  25     hyperium/hyper                    A fast and correct HTTP library for Rust.                                                                                   76                 Low                     HTTP, Networking, Async Rust                             Medium                        Sean McArthur                                      Community-driven
  26     tikv/tikv                         A distributed KV database in Rust. ³⁴                                                                                       75                 High                    Databases, Distributed Systems, Raft, KV Stores          High                          N/A                                                PingCAP, CNCF
  27     rust-lang/rust-analyzer           A Rust compiler front-end for IDEs. ⁴⁴                                                                                      74                 Medium                  IDEs, Compilers, LSP, Developer Tools                    High                          Aleksey Kladov (matklad)                           Rust Project
  28     serde-rs/serde                    A generic serialization/deserialization framework. ⁴⁵                                                                       73                 Low                     Serialization, Macros, Data formats                      Medium                        David Tolnay (dtolnay)                             Individual-led
  29     clap-rs/clap                      A full featured, fast Command Line Argument Parser for Rust. ⁴⁶                                                             72                 Low                     CLI, Argument Parsing, Macros                            Medium                        Kevin K.                                           Community-driven
  30     async-graphql/async-graphql       A GraphQL server library implemented in Rust.                                                                               71                 Low                     GraphQL, Web, Async Rust                                 Medium                        Sunli                                              Community-driven
  31     SeaQL/sea-orm                     🐚 An async & dynamic ORM for Rust                                                                                           70                 Low                     Databases, ORM, Async Rust                               High                          Chris Tsang                                        Community-driven
  32     MaterializeInc/materialize        The streaming database for real-time analytics.                                                                             69                 High                    Databases, Streaming, SQL, Dataflow                      High                          Frank McSherry                                     Materialize, Inc.
  33     surrealdb/surrealdb               A scalable, distributed, collaborative, document-graph database. ³⁴                                                         68                 High                    Databases, NoSQL, GraphDB, Distributed Systems           High                          Tobie Morgan Hitchcock                             SurrealDB Ltd.
  34     risingwavelabs/risingwave         The streaming database: SQL stream processing with Postgres-like experience. ³⁴                                             67                 High                    Databases, Streaming, SQL, Distributed Systems           High                          N/A                                                RisingWave Labs
  35     solana-labs/solana                Web-Scale Blockchain for fast, secure, scalable, decentralized apps and marketplaces.                                       66                 High                    Blockchain, Web3, Distributed Systems, Performance       High                          Anatoly Yakovenko                                  Solana Foundation, Solana Labs
  36     paritytech/polkadot-sdk           The SDK for building blockchains.                                                                                           65                 High                    Blockchain, Web3, Substrate, Networking                  High                          Gavin Wood                                         Parity Technologies, Web3 Foundation
  37     wasmerio/wasmer                   The leading WebAssembly Runtime supporting WASI and Emscripten.                                                             64                 High                    WebAssembly, Runtimes, WASI, Compilers                   High                          Syrus Akbary                                       Wasmer, Inc.
  38     esp-rs/esp-idf-hal                embedded-hal implementations for Espressif SoCs.                                                                            63                 Medium                  Embedded, Hardware, IoT, no_std                          High                          N/A                                                Espressif
  39     huggingface/candle                Minimalist ML framework for Rust.                                                                                           62                 High                    Machine Learning, AI, Linear Algebra, GPU (CUDA)         High                          N/A                                                Hugging Face
  40     launchbadge/sqlx                  🧰 The Rust SQL Toolkit. An async, pure Rust SQL crate. ⁴⁶                                                                   61                 Low                     Databases, SQL, Async Rust                               Medium                        N/A                                                Community-driven
  41     tower-rs/tower                    A library of modular and reusable components for building robust networking clients and servers.                            60                 Low                     Networking, Middleware, Async Rust                       Medium                        N/A                                                Tokio project
  42     image-rs/image                    Encoding and decoding images in Rust.                                                                                       59                 Low                     Image Processing, Codecs, Graphics                       Medium                        N/A                                                Community-driven
  43     ggez/ggez                         A lightweight game framework for making 2D games with minimum friction. ²                                                   58                 Low                     Game Development, 2D Graphics                            Medium                        N/A                                                Community-driven
  44     gfx-rs/wgpu                       Safe and portable GPU abstraction in Rust, implementing WebGPU API.                                                         57                 Medium                  Graphics, GPU, WebGPU, Rendering                         High                          N/A                                                Mozilla, Google
  45     rust-windowing/winit              A cross-platform window creation and event loop management library in Rust.                                                 56                 Low                     Windowing, GUI, Cross-Platform                           High                          N/A                                                Community-driven
  46     emilk/egui                        An easy-to-use immediate mode GUI in Rust that runs on both web and native. ⁴⁷                                              55                 Medium                  GUI, UI/UX, Immediate Mode                               High                          Emil Ernerfeldt                                    Individual-led
  47     dtolnay/syn                       A parser for Rust source code.                                                                                              54                 Low                     Macros, Compilers, Parsers                               Medium                        David Tolnay (dtolnay)                             Individual-led
  48     rayon-rs/rayon                    A data parallelism library for Rust. ⁴⁸                                                                                     53                 Low                     Concurrency, Parallelism, Performance                    Low                           Niko Matsakis, Josh Triplett                       Community-driven
  49     crossbeam-rs/crossbeam            Tools for concurrent programming in Rust. ⁴⁸                                                                                52                 Low                     Concurrency, Data Structures, Performance                Medium                        Aaron Turon, Stjepan Glavina                       Community-driven
  50     PyO3/PyO3                         Rust bindings for the Python interpreter. ⁴⁸                                                                                51                 Medium                  Python Interop, FFI, Bindings                            High                          N/A                                                Community-driven
  51     axum-rs/axum                      Ergonomic and modular web framework built with Tokio, Tower, and Hyper. ⁴⁶                                                  50                 Low                     Web Frameworks, HTTP, Async Rust                         High                          N/A                                                Tokio project
  52     seanmonstar/reqwest               An ergonomic, batteries-included HTTP Client for Rust. ⁴⁶                                                                   49                 Low                     HTTP, Networking, Async Rust                             Medium                        Sean McArthur                                      Individual-led
  53     chronotope/chrono                 Date and time library for Rust.                                                                                             48                 Low                     Date/Time, Standard Library                              Low                           N/A                                                Community-driven
  54     rand-rs/rand                      A Rust library for random number generation.                                                                                47                 Low                     Random Numbers, Cryptography, Algorithms                 Low                           N/A                                                Rust-random project
  55     rust-lang/cargo                   The Rust package manager. ⁴⁴                                                                                                46                 Medium                  Build System, Package Management, Developer Tools        High                          Alex Crichton, Yehuda Katz                         Rust Project
  56     rust-lang/rustlings               Small exercises to get you used to reading and writing Rust code. ⁵                                                         45                 Low                     Education, Learning, Exercises                           Medium                        Carol Nichols                                      Rust Project
  57     console-rs/console                A toolkit for building command-line interfaces in Rust. ⁴⁶                                                                  44                 Low                     CLI, TUI, Terminal                                       Medium                        Armin Ronacher                                     Individual-led
  58     redox-os/redox                    A Unix-like Operating System written in Rust. ⁴⁹                                                                            43                 Low                     Operating Systems, Microkernels, Systems Programming     Medium                        Jeremy Soller                                      Community-driven
  59     gleam-lang/gleam                  ⭐️ A friendly language for building type-safe, scalable systems!                                                            42                 Medium                  Compilers, Programming Languages, BEAM (Erlang VM)       High                          Louis Pilfold                                      N/A
  60     vercel/turbo                      A high-performance build system for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases.                                                    41                 High                    Build System, JavaScript/TS, Monorepos, Performance      High                          Jared Palmer                                       Vercel
  61     TheAlgorithms/Rust                All Algorithms implemented in Rust.                                                                                         40                 Low                     Algorithms, Data Structures, Education                   Medium                        N/A                                                Community-driven
  62     getsentry/sentry-rust             Sentry SDK for Rust.                                                                                                        39                 High                    Error Monitoring, SDKs, Telemetry                        High                          Armin Ronacher                                     Sentry
  63     qdrant/qdrant                     Vector Database for the next generation of AI applications. ³⁴                                                              38                 High                    Databases, Vector Search, AI/ML, Search Engines          High                          N/A                                                Qdrant
  64     apache/arrow-rs                   Official Rust implementation of Apache Arrow.                                                                               37                 Medium                  Data Formats, Arrow, Data Engineering                    High                          N/A                                                Apache Software Foundation
  65     datafuselabs/databend             A Modern Real-Time Data Processing & Analytics DBMS with Cloud-Native Architecture. ³⁴                                      36                 High                    Databases, Data Warehouse, SQL, Cloud                    High                          N/A                                                Datafuse Labs
  66     spacedriveapp/spacedrive          A file explorer, from the future.                                                                                           35                 Medium                  Desktop Apps, File Systems, Distributed Systems, UI/UX   High                          N/A                                                N/A
  67     neondatabase/neon                 Serverless Postgres. We separated storage and compute. ³⁴                                                                   34                 High                    Databases, Postgres, Cloud, Serverless                   High                          N/A                                                Neon, Inc.
  68     firecracker-microvm/firecracker   Secure and fast microVMs for serverless computing.                                                                          33                 High                    Virtualization, MicroVMs, Cloud, Security                High                          N/A                                                Amazon Web Services (AWS)
  69     bottlerocket-os/bottlerocket      An operating system designed for hosting containers.                                                                        32                 High                    Operating Systems, Containers, Linux, Security           High                          N/A                                                Amazon Web Services (AWS)
  70     cloudflare/quiche                 🥧 Savoury implementation of the QUIC transport protocol and HTTP/3.                                                         31                 High                    Networking, QUIC, HTTP/3, Cryptography                   High                          N/A                                                Cloudflare
  71     slint-ui/slint                    Slint is a declarative GUI toolkit to build native user interfaces for applications.                                        30                 High                    GUI, UI/UX, Embedded, Desktop Apps                       High                          N/A                                                Slint GmbH
  72     napi-rs/napi-rs                   A framework for building pre-compiled Node.js addons in Rust.                                                               29                 Medium                  Node.js Interop, FFI, Performance                        High                          LongYinan                                          N/A
  73     extrawurst/gitui                  Blazing 💥 fast terminal-ui for git written in Rust 🦀                                                                        28                 Low                     CLI, TUI, Git, Developer Tools                           Medium                        Stephan Dilly                                      Individual-led
  74     cberner/redb                      An embedded key-value store in Rust.                                                                                        27                 Low                     Databases, Embedded, KV Stores                           Medium                        Christopher Berner                                 Individual-led
  75     ratatui-org/ratatui               A Rust library to build rich Terminal User Interfaces (TUIs).                                                               26                 Low                     TUI, CLI, UI/UX                                          High                          N/A                                                Community-driven
  76     rust-embedded/discovery           Discover the world of embedded Rust!                                                                                        25                 Low                     Embedded, Learning, Hardware                             Low                           N/A                                                Rust Embedded WG
  77     leptos-rs/leptos                  Build fast web applications with Rust.                                                                                      24                 Medium                  WebAssembly, Frontend, UI/UX, Web Frameworks             High                          Greg Johnston                                      N/A
  78     dioxuslabs/dioxus                 Fullstack GUI library for web, desktop, mobile, and more.                                                                   23                 Medium                  GUI, UI/UX, Web, Desktop, Mobile                         High                          Jonathan Kelley                                    N/A
  79     shuttle-hq/shuttle                Build & ship backends without writing any infrastructure files.                                                             22                 High                    Cloud, PaaS, Backend, Web Services                       High                          N/A                                                Shuttle
  80     GreptimeTeam/greptimedb           An open-source, cloud-native, distributed time-series database. ³⁴                                                          21                 High                    Databases, Time Series, Cloud, SQL                       High                          N/A                                                Greptime
  81     juspay/hyperswitch                An open source payments switch to make payments fast, reliable and affordable. ⁵⁰                                           20                 High                    FinTech, Payments, Backend                               High                          N/A                                                Juspay
  82     openobserve/openobserve           🚀 10x easier, 🚀 140x lower storage cost, 🚀 high performance, 🚀 petabyte scale - Elasticsearch/Splunk/Datadog alternative.   19                 High                    Observability, Logs, Metrics, Traces, Search             High                          N/A                                                OpenObserve
  83     tree-sitter/tree-sitter           An incremental parsing system for programming tools.                                                                        18                 Medium                  Parsers, Compilers, Developer Tools                      High                          Max Brunsfeld                                      GitHub
  84     roc-lang/roc                      A fast, friendly, functional language.                                                                                      17                 Medium                  Compilers, Programming Languages, Functional             High                          Richard Feldman                                    N/A
  85     ruffle-rs/ruffle                  A Flash Player emulator written in Rust. ⁵¹                                                                                 16                 Medium                  Emulators, WebAssembly, Graphics                         High                          N/A                                                N/A
  86     cube-js/cube                      📊 Cube — The Semantic Layer for Building Data Apps.                                                                         15                 High                    Data Analytics, BI, SQL, API                             High                          N/A                                                Cube Dev, Inc.
  87     valeriansaliou/sonic              🦔 Fast, lightweight & schema-less search backend.                                                                           14                 Low                     Search Engines, Performance, Indexing                    Low                           Valerian Saliou                                    Individual-led
  88     poem-web/poem                     A full-featured and easy-to-use web framework with the Rust programming language. ⁴⁹                                        13                 Low                     Web Frameworks, HTTP, Async Rust                         Medium                        N/A                                                Community-driven
  89     quickwit-oss/quickwit             Cloud-native search engine for log management.                                                                              12                 High                    Search Engines, Logs, Observability, Cloud               High                          N/A                                                Quickwit, Inc.
  90     kata-containers/kata-containers   A secure container runtime with lightweight virtual machines.                                                               11                 High                    Containers, Virtualization, Security, Cloud              High                          N/A                                                OpenInfra Foundation
  91     linkerd/linkerd2-proxy            The world's fastest, lightest service mesh proxy.                                                                           10                 High                    Service Mesh, Networking, Cloud Native, gRPC             High                          N/A                                                CNCF, Buoyant
  92     wez/wezterm                       A GPU-accelerated cross-platform terminal emulator and multiplexer.                                                         9                  Low                     Terminal Emulators, GPU, TUI                             High                          Wez Furlong                                        Individual-led
  93     zellij-org/zellij                 A terminal workspace with batteries included.                                                                               8                  Low                     Terminal, TUI, Developer Tools                           High                          N/A                                                Community-driven
  94     ClementTsang/bottom               Yet another cross-platform graphical process/system monitor.                                                                7                  Low                     CLI, TUI, System Monitoring                              Medium                        Clement Tsang                                      Individual-led
  95     ogham/exa                         A modern replacement for ls. (Archived, see eza-community/eza)                                                              6                  Low                     CLI, File Systems                                        Inactive                      Benjamin Sago                                      Individual-led
  96     dandavison/delta                  A syntax-highlighting pager for git, diff, and grep output.                                                                 5                  Low                     CLI, Git, Diffing, Syntax Highlighting                   Medium                        Dan Davison                                        Individual-led
  97     ajeetdsouza/zoxide                A smarter cd command. Supports all major shells.                                                                            4                  Low                     CLI, Shells, Productivity                                Medium                        Ajeet D'Souza                                      Individual-led
  98     systeminit/si                     The System Initiative software.                                                                                             3                  High                    DevOps, IaC, Cloud, Distributed Systems                  High                          Adam Jacob                                         System Initiative
  99     atuinsh/atuin                     ✨ Magical Shell History                                                                                                     2                  Medium                  CLI, Shells, Databases (SQLite), Sync                    High                          Ellie Huxtable                                     N/A
  100    Ogeon/palette                     A Rust library for linear color calculations and conversion.                                                                1                  Low                     Color Science, Graphics, Math                            Low                           N/A                                                Community-driven

Deep Dive: Profiles of Premier "Hire-Me" Projects

While the comprehensive table provides a broad overview, a deeper
analysis of the highest-potential projects reveals the specific nature
of the opportunities they present. The following profiles examine a
selection of repositories with a "High" probability of hiring, detailing
their corporate backing, strategic value, and the types of skills they
demand.

astral-sh/uv & astral-sh/ruff

-   Corporate Backing: These projects are the flagship products of
      Astral, a company with a clear mission to build high-performance
      developer tools for the Python ecosystem.²² Astral is a
      well-defined corporate entity, distinguishing it from
      community-led or foundation-backed efforts.

-   Hiring Signals: Astral maintains an active careers page with
      explicit postings for "Open Source Software Engineer" roles,
      sometimes specifically mentioning uv.²³ This is the most direct
      hiring signal possible, indicating that the company's growth is
      directly tied to hiring engineers to work on its open-source
      codebases.

-   Key Personnel: The projects are led by prominent figures in the Rust
      community, most notably Andrew Gallant (handle: BurntSushi), the
      creator of ripgrep and the regex crate.¹⁸ Working on these
      projects offers the opportunity to collaborate with and learn from
      world-class engineers.

-   Strategic Value: These repositories are the epicenter of the
      "Python-in-Rust" trend. For a developer with skills in both Python
      and Rust, contributing here is the most direct possible audition
      for a role at Astral. The work involves deep knowledge of the
      Python packaging ecosystem, command-line tool design, asynchronous
      Rust for I/O-bound tasks, and relentless performance optimization.
      A merged pull request is a tangible asset that demonstrates
      precisely the skills the company is hiring for.

zed-industries/zed

-   Corporate Backing: zed is developed by Zed Industries, a
      venture-backed startup that has raised $42 million in funding,
      including a Series B round.²⁰ This level of funding indicates
      significant commercial ambition and the resources to build a large
      engineering team.

-   Hiring Signals: Zed Industries has a dedicated and detailed jobs
      page listing multiple, specific Rust engineering roles, including
      positions focused on AI integration, backend systems, and Linux
      desktop development.²¹ This demonstrates a clear and immediate
      need for Rust talent across various specializations.

-   Key Personnel: The company was founded by Nathan Sobo and Max
      Brunsfeld, key figures behind the development of the Atom editor
      and the Tree-sitter parsing library at GitHub.²⁰ This provides the
      project with immense credibility and a deep well of experience in
      building developer tools.

-   Strategic Value: zed is a premier target for developers interested
      in high-performance application development. The project's focus
      on GPU-accelerated UI, real-time collaboration, and AI integration
      presents a rich set of complex and modern engineering challenges.
      Contributions can demonstrate skills in UI/UX, graphics
      programming, distributed systems, and the application of AI,
      making a contributor a highly attractive candidate for a role at
      the company.

pola-rs/polars

-   Corporate Backing: The polars library is commercially supported by a
      Dutch company of the same name, which has successfully raised $4
      million in a seed round from top-tier venture capital firms,
      including Accel and Bain Capital Ventures.³²

-   Hiring Signals: The company's careers page lists open positions for
      Software Engineers specializing in performance and query engines,
      indicating a focus on hiring for the core development of the
      library.³³ The broader job market also shows a high demand for
      engineers with Polars experience in data-centric roles.⁵²

-   Strategic Value: polars is the leading project for a developer
      seeking a career at the intersection of Rust and data science. It
      is rapidly becoming the high-performance successor to Python's
      pandas library. Contributing to polars requires and demonstrates
      highly sought-after skills in data structures, query optimization,
      the Apache Arrow memory format, and building efficient, parallel
      algorithms. It is a direct pathway to a role at the core company
      or a data engineering position at any number of companies adopting
      Polars for their data pipelines.

denoland/deno

-   Corporate Backing: deno is developed by Deno Land Inc., a company
      backed by prominent investors like Sequoia Capital.²⁷ The company
      is building commercial services on top of the open-source runtime,
      creating a sustainable business model.

-   Hiring Signals: The company has a history of hiring software
      engineers to work on the runtime and its associated cloud
      services.⁵⁴ While job openings may fluctuate, the corporate
      structure ensures a recurring need for Rust and systems
      programming talent.

-   Key Personnel: The project was created by Ryan Dahl, the original
      creator of Node.js. This lineage gives deno immense industry
      recognition and technical authority.

-   Strategic Value: As a modern JavaScript and TypeScript runtime, deno
      is a foundational piece of web infrastructure. Contributing to it
      demonstrates expertise in building language runtimes, deep
      asynchronous programming with Tokio, and integration with the V8
      JavaScript engine. These are rare and valuable skills that are
      applicable not only at Deno Land Inc. but also at any company
      building low-level, high-performance web infrastructure.

bevyengine/bevy

-   Foundation Backing: bevy is not owned by a traditional for-profit
      company but is supported by the Bevy Foundation, a non-profit
      organization dedicated to advancing the engine.²⁴ This model
      ensures the project remains free and open-source forever.

-   Hiring Signals: The hiring path for bevy is classified as "Medium"
      because it is less direct than that of a VC-backed startup. The
      Bevy Foundation's mission includes funding and hiring core
      maintainers to work on the engine full-time, creating paid
      opportunities within the project itself.²⁵ Furthermore, the
      growing ecosystem of game studios and companies using Bevy for
      simulations and applications creates a secondary job market for
      developers with proven Bevy expertise.⁵⁶

-   Strategic Value: bevy is the definitive entry point for a career in
      Rust-based game development. It is the most popular and active
      game engine in the ecosystem. Contributions require and
      demonstrate a strong understanding of Entity Component System
      (ECS) architecture, 2D/3D graphics pipelines, and real-time
      application design. Building a public portfolio of contributions
      to Bevy is the most effective way to signal expertise to potential
      employers in the Rust gamedev industry.

A Strategic Guide to Effective Contribution and Career Leverage

Possessing a comprehensive list of high-potential repositories is the
first step. The next, more critical step is to translate this data into
a concrete strategy for contribution and career growth. This involves
selecting the right target, engaging with the community effectively, and
leveraging contributions as a tangible career asset.

Choosing Your Target: Aligning Skills with Opportunity

The primary table in this report is a tool for strategic filtering. A
developer should approach it not as a simple ranking but as a database
to be queried based on personal career goals. The selection process
should be guided by a combination of factors:

1.  Desired Career Domain: The first filter should be the developer's
      target industry. An interest in data engineering should
      immediately draw attention to projects like polars, tikv, and
      materialize. A passion for game development points toward bevy. A
      desire to work on developer tools suggests focusing on uv, zed, or
      rust-analyzer.

2.  Existing Skill Set: Leverage existing expertise to accelerate the
      initial contribution process. A developer with a strong background
      in Python will find the barrier to entry lower for projects like
      uv or polars, as they will already understand the problem domain
      intimately. An expert in JavaScript and web toolchains will be
      well-equipped to contribute to deno or swc.

3.  Hiring Urgency: The "Probability of Hiring" column is a crucial
      filter for those with an immediate goal of finding employment.
      Prioritizing projects in the "High" category significantly
      increases the chances of a contribution leading directly to an
      interview. For those with a longer-term strategy of
      skill-building, "Medium" or even "Low" probability projects with
      high reputation scores can be excellent choices.

The Contribution Ladder: From First PR to Trusted Contributor

Meaningful contribution goes beyond fixing typos or tackling the
simplest "good first issues." While these are valuable for learning a
project's workflow, the goal is to climb the contribution ladder and
demonstrate a deeper level of engagement and technical capability.

-   Move Beyond the Trivial: After one or two introductory tasks,
      actively seek out more complex bugs or the implementation of
      small, well-defined features. This demonstrates an ability to read
      and understand a larger portion of the codebase and to reason
      about its architecture.

-   Master the Art of Communication: A well-crafted pull request is more
      than just code; it is a piece of technical communication. It
      should include a clear description of the problem, a detailed
      explanation of the solution, and thorough testing. Engaging
      constructively in code reviews and design discussions, whether on
      GitHub or Discord, is as important as the code itself. Projects
      like Bevy explicitly encourage participation in RFC (Request for
      Comments) processes for major decisions, providing a forum to
      demonstrate design and architecture skills.¹²

-   Build a Relationship with Maintainers: Over time, consistent,
      high-quality contributions build trust. Responsive, helpful, and
      technically sound contributors become known quantities to the
      project's maintainers—the very people who are often employees of
      the sponsoring company and key influencers in hiring decisions.

From Contributor to Candidate: Monetizing Your Reputation

In the modern technical hiring landscape, particularly within
commercially-backed open source, a developer's GitHub profile has become
their most potent resume. It is a public, verifiable record of their
skills, work ethic, and ability to collaborate. The final step of the
strategy is to explicitly leverage this record.

The shift towards a "contribute-to-hire" model means that hiring
managers at companies like Astral, Zed Industries, and Polars are not
just posting jobs; they are actively observing their own project's
contributor pool. A history of merged pull requests is more persuasive
and carries more weight than any self-reported skill on a traditional
resume. This transforms the hiring process from an application into a
conversation.

To maximize this effect, a developer should:

-   Curate Their Public Profile: Ensure their GitHub profile is
      professional and highlights key contributions. Pin the most
      significant repositories and write clear commit messages and PR
      descriptions that can be easily understood by a future reviewer.

-   Articulate Contributions in Interviews: When interviewing, be
      prepared to discuss OSS contributions in depth. The conversation
      should focus not just on the technical implementation (the
      "what"), but on the entire process: how the issue was diagnosed,
      the design trade-offs considered, the feedback incorporated from
      code reviews, and the overall impact of the change (the "how" and
      "why"). This frames the contribution as a complete project,
      showcasing a full range of engineering skills.

-   Feature OSS on Your Resume: List key OSS projects under an "Open
      Source Contributions" section. Instead of simply naming the
      project, describe the contribution and its impact. For example:
      "Polars (pola-rs/polars): Implemented a new parallel algorithm for
      string-to-datetime conversion, resulting in a 3x performance
      improvement. (See PR #1234)." This provides a direct, verifiable
      claim of impact.

By treating open source as a strategic endeavor—selecting the right
projects, contributing meaningfully, and skillfully presenting that
work—a developer can build a powerful and undeniable case for their
expertise, turning their passion for code into a direct and accelerated
path to a premier job in the Rust ecosystem.

Works cited

1.  Rust (programming language) - Wikipedia, accessed on September 1,
      2025, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rust_(programming_language)

2.  Awesome Rust | LibHunt, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://rust.libhunt.com/

3.  Rust Programming Language, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.rust-lang.org/

4.  From Systems Programming to Foundational Software: 10 Years of Rust
      with Niko Matsakis (Live Podcast) - Reddit, accessed on September
      1, 2025,
      https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/1kyfbtk/from_systems_programming_to_foundational_software/

5.  Top 100 Stars in Rust - Github Ranking | Github-Ranking, accessed on
      September 1, 2025,
      https://evanli.github.io/Github-Ranking/Top100/Rust.html

6.  TOP 61 Rust Open Source Projects in 2025 - Web3 Jobs, accessed on
      September 1, 2025,
      https://web3.career/learn-web3/top-rust-open-source-projects

7.  denoland/deno: A modern runtime for JavaScript and ... - GitHub,
      accessed on September 1, 2025, https://github.com/denoland/deno

8.  tauri-apps/tauri: Build smaller, faster, and more secure ... -
      GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/tauri-apps/tauri

9.  rustdesk/rustdesk: An open-source remote desktop ... - GitHub,
      accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/rustdesk/rustdesk

10. astral-sh/uv: An extremely fast Python package and project ... -
      GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/astral-sh/uv

11. zed-industries/zed: Code at the speed of thought – Zed is a ... -
      GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/zed-industries/zed

12. bevyengine/bevy: A refreshingly simple data-driven game ... -
      GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy

13. meilisearch/meilisearch: A lightning-fast search engine API ... -
      GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch

14. yewstack/yew: Rust / Wasm framework for creating reliable ... -
      GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/yewstack/yew

15. pola-rs/polars: Dataframes powered by a multithreaded ... - GitHub,
      accessed on September 1, 2025, https://github.com/pola-rs/polars

16. nushell/nushell: A new type of shell - GitHub, accessed on September
      1, 2025, https://github.com/nushell/nushell

17. 19 Best Rust Developers for High-Perf Projects (2025) - EchoGlobal
      Tech, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://echoglobal.tech/technologies/rust/

18. Andrew Gallant, Engineering a Fast Grep - The University of Rhode
      Island, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://web.uri.edu/cs/andrew-gallant-engineering-a-fast-grep/

19. Mara Bos (m-ou-se) - GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/m-ou-se

20. Zed - 2025 Company Profile, Team, Funding & Competitors - Tracxn,
      accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://tracxn.com/d/companies/zed/__3jn1wtnWJjfLtgOSDXECkHFjHmFm7BkEKtVzcAABH3A

21. Join the Zed Team, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://zed.dev/jobs

22. Astral: High-performance Python tooling, accessed on September 1,
      2025, https://astral.sh/

23. Astral - Jobs, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://jobs.ashbyhq.com/astral

24. Bevy News, accessed on September 1, 2025, https://bevy.org/news/

25. Bevy Foundation | Every.org, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.every.org/bevy-foundation

26. Introduction | Nushell, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.nushell.sh/book/

27. The Company - Deno, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://deno.com/company

28. Tauri - 2025 Company Profile & Competitors - Tracxn, accessed on
      September 1, 2025,
      https://tracxn.com/d/companies/tauri/__UeWu-yugFL99F0rlJIfZKvkN8itLl65tn82YDk06UMk

29. CrabNebula, accessed on September 1, 2025, https://crabnebula.dev/

30. Tauri 2.0 | Tauri, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://v2.tauri.app/

31. Polars — DataFrames for the new era, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://pola.rs/

32. Polars (Database Software) 2025 Company Profile: Valuation, Funding
      & Investors, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://pitchbook.com/profiles/company/532987-48

33. Polars — Our Services, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://pola.rs/careers/

34. rust-unofficial/awesome-rust: A curated list of Rust code and
      resources. - GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/rust-unofficial/awesome-rust

35. Recommended open source project to contribute to : r/rust - Reddit,
      accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/1bxf1vw/recommended_open_source_project_to_contribute_to/

36. Bevy Engine, accessed on September 1, 2025, https://bevy.org/

37. RustDesk: Open-Source Remote Desktop with Self-Hosted Server
      Solutions, accessed on September 1, 2025, https://rustdesk.com/

38. Yew, accessed on September 1, 2025, https://yew.rs/

39. How Dr. Gavin Wood's Significant Contributions Helped Shape
      Blockchain Evolution, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.cryptopolitan.com/gavin-woods-blockchain-evolution/

40. Gavin Wood - Wikipedia, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gavin_Wood

41. RustDesk - Wikipedia, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RustDesk

42. Meilisearch 2025 Company Profile: Valuation, Funding & Investors |
      PitchBook, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://pitchbook.com/profiles/company/399483-37

43. Top 10 Rusty Repositories for you to start your Open Source
      Journey - DEV Community, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://dev.to/hyperswitchio/top-10-rusty-repositories-for-you-to-start-your-open-source-journey-l9b

44. Repositories - rust-lang - GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/orgs/rust-lang/repositories

45. What's the coolest Rust project you've seen that made you go, 'Wow,
      I didn't know Rust could do that!'? - Reddit, accessed on
      September 1, 2025,
      https://www.reddit.com/r/rust/comments/14pfvf8/whats_the_coolest_rust_project_youve_seen_that/

46. Top 15 Rust Projects To Elevate Your Skills | Zero To Mastery,
      accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://zerotomastery.io/blog/rust-practice-projects/

47. Trending Rust developers on GitHub today, accessed on September 1,
      2025, https://github.com/trending/developers/rust

48. Awesome Rank for rust-unofficial/awesome-rust, accessed on September
      1, 2025,
      https://awesomerank.github.io/lists/rust-unofficial/awesome-rust.html

49. Awesome Rust - GitHub, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://github.com/awesome-rust-com/awesome-rust

50. Trending Rust repositories on GitHub today, accessed on September 1,
      2025, https://github.com/trending/rust

51. Open Source Projects - Rustfinity, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.rustfinity.com/open-source

52. $133k-$300k Polars Data Jobs (NOW HIRING) Aug 2025 - ZipRecruiter,
      accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Jobs/Polars-Data

53. Deno Remote Jobs - Jobera, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://jobera.com/employer/deno/

54. Deno Careers - Jobs in JS, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://jobsinjs.com/company/deno?page=6&slug1=fr

55. Jobs at Deno | Sequoia Capital, accessed on September 1, 2025,
      https://jobs.sequoiacap.com/jobs/deno

56. $90k-$300k Bevy Jobs (NOW HIRING) Aug 2025 - ZipRecruiter, accessed
      on September 1, 2025, https://www.ziprecruiter.com/Jobs/Bevy
